---
layout: post
title: "100x is the new 10x engineer"
date: 2026-01-04 01:49:55 -0400
comments: true
categories:
---

// insert some comment about what vcs say about living in the future
// 2026 will be about enabling AI to do more

On people,

The people living in the future are the ones completing 50-100 feature requests per week
snapshot of

In 2010, the concept of the 10x engineer took the tech space by storm. Everyone's linkedin profile was updated to proudly proclaim how they are a 10x engineer.

In 2026, 10x has been replaced by the 100x engineer. The 100x exists today and they are quietly managing fleets of AI agents, multiple AI subscriptions, and quietly orchestrating their small gas town on from their cell phone on their way to a dinner party.

but these 100x engineers exist, because the ecosystem aroudn them exists. They work in low-human-complexity companies that evolved with this new paradigm

On Companies,

Companies that stick to the old waterfall strategy of:

road map planning, product scoping, eng scoping, jira tickets, MRs and code reviews, QA test, data analytics

Will be left behind the companies that 

On the future,

How do you not get left behind?

There are 2 sides of engineering labor: why and how

There the path for how is rocky but is stil being blazed. I remember telling people about how amazing Slack is in ___ and many people brushed me off saying email or skype meets their needs, so why change?

You can be apart of the story of people helping lay down that cement, building the path for others to walk on (selling shovels as they say) by creating great tools enable others to be 100x engineers

Or you can learn how to use other people's tools, maybe develop your own personal processes, and stay focused on solving a business need before anyone else can in a way that no one else can.

On creating tools,

AI needs more context. MCP was a step, but 


read and write

AI needs more context

AI needs more access
