---
layout: post
title: "Designing With AI on a budget as an engineer: Google+ChatGPT"
date: 2026-06-11 01:49:55 -0400
comments: true
categories:
---

Tokens are for code, not for design. I will teach you how to create beautiful marketing materials for Apple, Google, and social media accounts in the correct dimensions and quality at the cost of zero tokens.

I fully acknowledge that this is not as good as a professional designer, but it is infinitely better quality and lower time than I could do on my own without AI. If you don't believe look at what I did pre-AI, GPT4, and today in the bonuse case study below.

## Saigon Watermarks

// example carousell...

## Step one: ask ChatGPT Web to describe list of screenshots.

The example app was going to be a desktop iOS app. I first asked AI to give me six or ten screenshot ideas for how to display the app and the page.

While I already have an idea of which screenshots of the app that I would want to use, I let the AI think a little more freely just in case something's missing without giving hints to indentify blind spots in my mental model.

It is important to note to use ChatGPT Web, and not any local agent harness (Codex, Claude, etc) that has access to the code base. The marketing materials should be communicate the problem this solves, not explicitly and exclusively your solution. AI has a tendency to include technical terms from the codebase that do not belong in marketing materials.

So, brand new ChatGPT web prompt:

```
I am building {product}. The key features are {...}.

Give me 10 ideas for screenshots to include in the MacOS App Store. that will help me sell to my customers.
```

From those 10 ideas, ask AI to generate a longer prompt describing the content of that page.

```
write an AI prompt for generating an screenshot image of {...}
```

## Generate the PNG

* Paste in the prompt
* Ask ChatGPT Images 2.0 to generate a new picture with the prompt above
* Include the screenshot of the app that this screenshot needs to be talking about

For example, I want to have a screenshot showing of the images for the profile dashboard. AI will incorporate the real screenshot with the marketing text described in the prompt to generate something beautiful. Sometimes I'll make some corrections with the image generation tool, either asking it to modify the existing image or even better, just regenerating the original image, clean slate, no edits, tends to be more effective.

Once I have these base PNGs for each of the screenshots I want, the problem of these PNGs is that they are the wrong dimensions and are low quailty. We need this to be super crisp and polished and it can't just be some blurry, shitty AI generated photo.

## Converting chatGPT images to high quality marketing materials

// image from desktop of Google Stich

So, the next stage we're going to do is once we have those three images, we're going to:
* Go to [Google Stich](https://stitch.withgoogle.com/) (Google's Figma competitor) and upload these images into the tool.
* Generate an HTML page from that image.

The Google Stich has limited tokens available, so use google Stich to generate the html and we can tune the html later (either by hand or with Claude, ChatGPT web, etc).

### Sidequest: Recreating icons

There was an icon that I really liked in the original image that neither Google nor ChatGPT could properly replicate in HTML/SVG. So, what I did was:

* Opened up the original ChatGPT image in an SVG editing tool
* Manually traced over the icon with these vector points
* Exported the SVG and replaced the generated svg with my manually created one.

Now I was able to replicate that icon generated by ChatBT, but in a very precise and colorful and beautiful way. Once you have your page opened up,

### Final step: screenshot, resize, crop and upload

looks great in HTML in your favorite web browser, take a screenshot of the entire page and use your favorite image editing tool to crop and resize it so it fits the dimensions for each of the images.

## Bonus Case study: AvoVietnam

Avo Vietnam

pre-AI

ChatGPT 4

Google+ChatGPT+Gemini
